docs/evaluation.rst, before:

.. _evaluation:

Evaluation
==========

Properties
``````````

algorithm_comparison
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if different algorithms are compared in the paper in an attempt to establish the best one to fulfill a specific goal. Example:

.. code-block:: none

    "algorithm_comparison": false

internal_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by means of internal validation methods, i.e., scores are provided based on the intrinsic properties of data under analysis (e.g., Silhouette).  Example:

.. code-block:: none
 
 	"internal_validation": false

external_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by means of external validation methods, e.g., baseline partitions, ground truth, pre-labeled data, dpi-classes. Example:

.. code-block:: none
 
 	"internal_validation": false

dpi-based_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by using the results from deep packet inspection (dpi) as benchmark. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"dpi-based_validation": true

port-based_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by using the results from port-based identification (typically TCP and UDP destination ports) as benchmark. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"port-based_validation": false

pre-knowledge-based_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by using some kind of pre-knowledge as benchmark. Such pre-knowledge usually means that authors prepared the data previous to the analysis according to predefined classes (e.g., ``"synthetic"`` or ``"altered_captured"``) Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"pre-knowledge-based_validation": true

manual_verification
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(*boolean*) It marks if results (e.g., outliers, classes, patterns) obtained by algorithms were manually/visually checked after the analysis to see/discover if results represent specific phenomena/events. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"manual_verification": true

implementation_in_real_scenario
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if authors mentioned/explained/tried an actual implementation of the proposed methodology/framework/algorithms in a real scenario. If the proposed system is running in a real environment and derived experiences are documented in the paper. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"implementation_in_real_scenario": false

train_test_separation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if datasets were clearly separated in independent train and test sets for the analysis. In other words, ``true`` if none of the testing data was used in training, ``false`` otherwise. Example:

.. todo:: what about methods that do not have training data (unsupervised)? should we put false or something different to distinguish?

.. code-block:: none

	"train_test_separation": true


methods (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *methods* can contain several *method-objects*. A *method-object* represents a technique used for the analysis evaluation or algorithm validation. A *method-object* is composed of several fields: 

name
----
(*string*) The name that identifies the evaluation method. Example:

.. code-block:: none
  
        "name": "normal classification metrics"

type (*optional*)
-----------------
(*string*) It identifies the type of evaluation method. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values): 

* ``"external"``
  the evaluation depends on labels or some other form of external ground truth.
* ``"internal"``
  the evaluation does not depend on any ground truth (e.g. silhouette coefficient).
* ``"external_and_internal"``
  both external and internal.
* ``"nest"``
  the evaluation is a method that embeds other methods, or carries out some kind of bootstrapping (e.g. cross-validation analysis, ensemble learning

.. todo:: what exactly is nest in this context?

Example:

.. code-block:: none

        "type": "external"

metrics (*optional*)
--------------------
(*array* of *string*) It assesses the used metrics for the evaluation. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values): 

* ``"error_distance"``
  metric depends on the distance from the model to the data points. e.g. sum of squared error, absolute error, r^2, etc
* ``"function_fitting"``
  metric does not depend on the actual data points, but on their (sample) distribution. e.g. Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, Shapiro-Wilk test, etc.
* ``"precision"``
  precision metric
* ``"accuracy"``
  accuracy metric
* ``"recall"``
  recall metric
* ``"f-1"``
  f-1 metric
* ``"roc/auc"``
  roc-based metrics
* ``"complete_confusion_matrix"``
  all information regarding the confusion matrix is provided.
* ``"incomplete_confusion_matrix"``
  some information regarding the confusion matrix is missing and it is relevant for evaluating the quality of the classifier.
* ``"classification_loss"``
  e.g. logistic regression loss function
* ``"clustering_metrics"``
  e.g. silhouette coefficient
* ``"time-based"``
* ``"computing_resources-based"``
  e.g. worst case bounds (big-O notation), measures of computer resources
* ``"granularity-based"``
  e.g. an algorithm provides more detailed information (classes, traffic types) than other algorithm.
* ``"heuristic"``
  the metric is an heuristic developed specifically for the problem
* ``"vote"``
  for nest methods (usually). The nest method integrates diverse validation techniques and the best result/algorithm is decided by means of consensus. 

.. todo:: time-based? is this not included in computing_resources-based?

Example:

.. code-block:: none

     "metrics": ["error_distance"]

source (*optional*)
-------------------
(*string*) It identifies the origin of the method. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values): 

* ``"own_proposed"``
  if authors developed and present the algorithm in the paper.
* ``"own_referenced"``
  if authors developed the algorithm but presented it in a previous publication.
* ``"referenced"``
  if authors took the method from the literature or known sources. 
* ``"popular"``
  the method is popular enough to not require a reference (e.g., FP, FN). 

Example:

.. code-block:: none

     "source": "referenced"


JSON example (evaluation, complete)
```````````````````````````````````

.. code-block:: none

  "evaluation": {
    "algorithm_comparison": false,
    "internal_validation": true,
    "external_validation": true,
    "dpi-based_validation": false,
    "port-based_validation": false,
    "pre-knowledge-based_validation": false,
    "manual_verification": true,
    "implementation_in_real_scenario": false,
    "train-test_separation": false,
    "methods": [
        {
            "name": "manual verification",
            "type": "external",
            "metrics": ["heuristics"],
            "source": "popular"
        },
        {
            "name": "weighted vote",
            "type": "nest",
            "metrics": ["vote"],
            "source": "popular"
        },
        {
            "name": "classification entropy",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"[,
            "source": "referenced"
        },
        {
            "name": "partition index",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"],
            "source": "referenced"
        },
        {
            "name": "xie and benix index",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"],
            "source": "referenced"
        },
        {
            "name": "clustering gain",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"],
            "source": "referenced"
        },
        {
            "name": "own cluster validity",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"],
            "source": "missing"
        }
    ]
  }

Commit message:

added more clarifications from discussion with felix

docs/evaluation.rst, after:

.. _evaluation:

Evaluation
==========

Properties
``````````

algorithm_comparison
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if different algorithms are compared in the paper in an attempt to establish the best one to fulfill a specific goal. Example:

.. code-block:: none

    "algorithm_comparison": false

internal_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by means of internal validation methods, i.e., scores are provided based on the intrinsic properties of data under analysis (e.g., Silhouette).  Example:

.. code-block:: none
 
 	"internal_validation": false

external_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by means of external validation methods, e.g., baseline partitions, ground truth, pre-labeled data, dpi-classes. Example:

.. code-block:: none
 
 	"internal_validation": false

dpi-based_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by using the results from deep packet inspection (dpi) as benchmark. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"dpi-based_validation": true

port-based_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by using the results from port-based identification (typically TCP and UDP destination ports) as benchmark. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"port-based_validation": false

pre-knowledge-based_validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(*boolean*) It marks if algorithms were evaluated by using some kind of pre-knowledge as benchmark. Such pre-knowledge usually means that authors prepared the data previous to the analysis according to predefined classes (e.g., ``"synthetic"`` or ``"altered_captured"``) Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"pre-knowledge-based_validation": true

manual_verification
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(*boolean*) It marks if results (e.g., outliers, classes, patterns) obtained by algorithms were manually/visually checked after the analysis to see/discover if results represent specific phenomena/events. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"manual_verification": true

implementation_in_real_scenario
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if authors mentioned/explained/tried an actual implementation of the proposed methodology/framework/algorithms in a real scenario. If the proposed system is running in a real environment and derived experiences are documented in the paper. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"implementation_in_real_scenario": false

train_test_separation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It marks if datasets were clearly separated in independent train and test sets for the analysis. In other words, ``true`` if none of the testing data was used in training, ``false`` otherwise. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"train_test_separation": true


methods (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *methods* can contain several *method-objects*. A *method-object* represents a technique used for the analysis evaluation or algorithm validation. A *method-object* is composed of several fields: 

name
----
(*string*) The name that identifies the evaluation method. Example:

.. code-block:: none
  
        "name": "normal classification metrics"

type (*optional*)
-----------------
(*string*) It identifies the type of evaluation method. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values): 

* ``"external"``
  the evaluation depends on labels or some other form of external ground truth.
* ``"internal"``
  the evaluation does not depend on any ground truth (e.g. silhouette coefficient).
* ``"external_and_internal"``
  both external and internal.
* ``"nest"``
  the evaluation is a method that embeds other methods, or carries out some kind of bootstrapping (e.g. cross-validation analysis, ensemble learning

.. note::
    In a particular paper, the usage of cross-validation could depend on the labels of the data.
    However, since cross-validation method itself is independent from the score used (you can do both supervised and unsupervised cross-validation, or even a mix of both), cross-validation is considered ``"nest"``.

Example:

.. code-block:: none

        "type": "external"

metrics (*optional*)
--------------------
(*array* of *string*) It assesses the used metrics for the evaluation. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values): 

* ``"error_distance"``
  metric depends on the distance from the model to the data points. e.g. sum of squared error, absolute error, r^2, etc
* ``"function_fitting"``
  metric does not depend on the actual data points, but on their (sample) distribution. e.g. Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, Shapiro-Wilk test, etc.
* ``"precision"``
  precision metric
* ``"accuracy"``
  accuracy metric
* ``"recall"``
  recall metric
* ``"f-1"``
  f-1 metric
* ``"roc/auc"``
  roc-based metrics
* ``"complete_confusion_matrix"``
  all information regarding the confusion matrix is provided.
* ``"incomplete_confusion_matrix"``
  some information regarding the confusion matrix is missing and it is relevant for evaluating the quality of the classifier.
* ``"classification_loss"``
  e.g. logistic regression loss function
* ``"clustering_metrics"``
  e.g. silhouette coefficient
* ``"time-based"``
  evaluation on the required time for running the method
* ``"other_computing_resources-based"``
  evaluation of required computing resources (excluding time) for running the method (e.g. memory, cpu)
* ``"granularity-based"``
  e.g. an algorithm provides more detailed information (classes, traffic types) than other algorithm.
* ``"heuristic"``
  the metric is an heuristic developed specifically for the problem
* ``"vote"``
  for nest methods (usually). The nest method integrates diverse validation techniques and the best result/algorithm is decided by means of consensus. 

.. todo:: clarify function_fitting

Example:

.. code-block:: none

     "metrics": ["error_distance"]

source (*optional*)
-------------------
(*string*) It identifies the origin of the method. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values): 

* ``"own_proposed"``
  if authors developed and present the algorithm in the paper.
* ``"own_referenced"``
  if authors developed the algorithm but presented it in a previous publication.
* ``"referenced"``
  if authors took the method from the literature or known sources. 
* ``"popular"``
  the method is popular enough to not require a reference (e.g., FP, FN). 

Example:

.. code-block:: none

     "source": "referenced"


JSON example (evaluation, complete)
```````````````````````````````````

.. code-block:: none

  "evaluation": {
    "algorithm_comparison": false,
    "internal_validation": true,
    "external_validation": true,
    "dpi-based_validation": false,
    "port-based_validation": false,
    "pre-knowledge-based_validation": false,
    "manual_verification": true,
    "implementation_in_real_scenario": false,
    "train-test_separation": false,
    "methods": [
        {
            "name": "manual verification",
            "type": "external",
            "metrics": ["heuristics"],
            "source": "popular"
        },
        {
            "name": "weighted vote",
            "type": "nest",
            "metrics": ["vote"],
            "source": "popular"
        },
        {
            "name": "classification entropy",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"[,
            "source": "referenced"
        },
        {
            "name": "partition index",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"],
            "source": "referenced"
        },
        {
            "name": "xie and benix index",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"],
            "source": "referenced"
        },
        {
            "name": "clustering gain",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"],
            "source": "referenced"
        },
        {
            "name": "own cluster validity",
            "type": "internal",
            "metrics": ["clustering_metrics"],
            "source": "missing"
        }
    ]
  }
