docs/preprocessing.rst, before:

.. _preprocessing:

Preprocessing
=============

Properties
``````````

performed_feature_selection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It states if a feature selection process is carried out in the paper to select the suitable set of features for the analysis. Example:

.. code-block:: none

     "performed_feature_selection": true

packet_analysis_oriented
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It states if, after the preprocessing phase, the data to analyze is intended to be explored packet by packet (e.g., by methods that perform deep packet inspection). Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"packet_analysis_oriented": false

flow_analysis_oriented
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It states if, after the preprocessing phase, the data to analyze is intended to be explored flow by flow. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"flow_analysis_oriented": true

flow_aggregation_analysis_oriented
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It states if, after the preprocessing phase, the data to analyze has been aggregated according to either features or flows. Therefore, the final analysis will not explore flows or packets, but usually networks as a whole by studying the aggregated values (e.g., time series showing the use of network resources). Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"flow_aggregation_analysis_oriented": false

.. include:: tools.rst 

normalization_type
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*string*) This field saves information about possible normalization of numerical data. ``"no"`` stands for cases where no normalization is applied but numerical attributes are used. ``"not_applicable"`` is for cases where normalization makes no sense (e.g., all analyzed fields are nominal or categories). Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values):

``"no"``, ``"not_applicable"``, ``"range"``, ``"zscore"``, ``"decimal_scaling"``, ``"quartile"``

.. note::
    do not confuse ``"quartile"`` with ``"quantile"``. ``"quartile"`` normalization uses *Q1* (25th percentile) and *Q3* (75th percentile) for normalization.

Example:

.. code-block:: none

 	"normalization_type": "range"

transformations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *strings*) This field collects all transformations that are performed after the dataset retrieval and previous to the analysis phase (i.e., they are part of the data preparation). Please, consider carefully the following listed operations (values):

``"no"``, ``"sampling"``, ``"filtering"``, ``"log"``, ``"map"``, ``"graph"``, ``"feature_aggregation"``, ``"flow_extraction"``, ``"entropy"``, ``"time_series"``, ``"feature_operation"``, ``"class_separation"``

.. note:: This field is redundant with the features in the packets/flows/flow aggregations. However, this field is mandatory while the feature fields are optionals.

Example:

.. code-block:: none
 
 	"transformations": ["sampling", "flow_extraction", "class_separation"]

final_data_format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*string*) It collects the format of data after the preprocessing and previous to the analysis phase. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values):

* ``"numerical_vectors"``
* ``"nominal_vectors"``
* ``"mixed_vectors"``
* ``"strings"``
* ``"time_series"``

Example:

.. code-block:: none
 
   	"final_data_format": "numerical_vectors"

feature_selections (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *feature_selections* can contain several *feature_selection-objects*. A *feature_selection-object* is composed of several fields: 

name
----

(*string*) The name that identifies the feature selection technique. Example:

.. code-block:: none
   
   "name": "forward_selection"

type (*optional*)
-----------------

(*string*) It identifies the type of feature selection method. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values): 

* ``"wrapper"``
* ``"filter"``
* ``"hybrid"``
* ``"nest"``
  when it embeds or operates in a higher level than other nested methods. 
* ``"feature_reduction"``
  when it refers to methods that change the space and transform the initial set of features into a new set of features with less dimensions (e.g., PCA, LDA). 

Example:

.. code-block:: none
      
      "type": "wrapper"

classifier (*optional*)
-----------------------

(*string*) It identifies the wrapped classifier that is used to evaluate the subset performance. If *classifier* is not applicable (e.g., for filters), write ``"none"``. Example:

.. code-block:: none
   
     "classifier": "naive_bayes"

role (*optional*)
-----------------

(*string*) This field is meaningful when diverse feature selection methods are compared. Default values are: ``"main"``, when the method led to the best solutions; and ``"competitor"`` for other cases. If only one feature selection method is used, it is always ``"main"``. Example:

.. code-block:: none
   
    "role": "main"

packets (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *packets* can contain several *packet-objects*. A *packet-object* is defined when analysis in the paper are conducted on packets, i.e., analysis tools check packets independently or/and packet contents. A *packet-object* is composed of several fields: 

selection (*optional*)
----------------------

(*string*) It identifies how the features extracted to analyze packets were selected. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values):

.. _selection:

* ``"in_dataset"``
  if the analyzed feature set is exactly the same feature set of the dataset before preprocessing.
* ``"feature_selection"``
  if a feature selection process was conducted and led to the current feature subset. 
* ``"study_based"``
  if the selected features are taken from a previous study referred in the paper.
* ``"tool_based"``
  if the selected features are obtained from an extraction or preprocessing tool.
* ``"expert_knowledge"``
  if the selection of features is endorsed by reasoning and proper explanations in the paper.

Example:

.. code-block:: none

     "selection": "in_dataset"
   
.. _role:

role (*optional*)
-----------------

(*string*) This field is meaningful when diverse preprocessing methods are compared.

Default values are:

* ``"main"``
  when the method led to the best solutions.
* ``"validation"``
  for the specific case of *packets*, when packet inspection is used as baseline or ground truth for validating flow-based analysis.
* ``"competitor"``
  otherwise.

Example:

.. code-block:: none
  
        "role": "validation"

.. _main_goal:

main_goal (*optional*)
----------------------

(*string*) This field saves the main goal of preparing the data according to this packet-based format. Please, consider the following possible labels (values):

* ``"anomaly_detection"``
* ``"application_classification"``
* ``"attack_classification"``
* ``"botnet_detection"``
* ``"classification_for_qos"``
* ``"classification_of_encrypted_traffic"``
* ``"ddos_detection"``
* ``"dos_detection"``
* ``"http_intrusion_detection"``
* ``"network_properties_monitoring"``
* ``"p2p_botnet_detection"``
* ``"p2p_traffic_classification"``
* ``"probe_detection"``
* ``"remote_to_local_detection"``
* ``"specific_malware_detection"``
* ``"traffic_classification"``
* ``"traffic_rate_prediction"``
* ``"traffic_visualization"``
* ``"user_to_root_detection"``

Example:

.. code-block:: none
  
           "main_goal": "traffic_classification"

.. _features:

features (*optional*)
---------------------

(*array* of *objects*)

Describes the features used in the paper. See :doc:`features` for complete information.


flows (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *flows* can contain several *flow-objects*. A *flow-object* is defined when analysis in the paper are conducted on flows, i.e., analysis tools check the behaviour of connection and connection attempts. A *flow-object* is composed of several fields: 

selection (*optional*)
----------------------
   Like in :ref:`packet-object.selection <selection>`.

role (*optional*)
-----------------
   Like in :ref:`packet-object.role <role>`.

main_goal (*optional*)
----------------------
   Like in :ref:`packet-object.main_goal <main_goal>`. 

.. _active_timeout:

active_timeout (*optional*)
---------------------------

(*numerical*, in seconds) This field defines the maximum duration of a flow. Example:
   
.. code-block:: none

  "active_timeout": 60

idle_timeout (*optional*)
-------------------------

(*numerical*, in seconds) This field defines the time in which, if no activity has been detected, the flow is considered as finished. Example:

.. code-block:: none

   "idle_timeout": 5

.. _bidirectional:

bidirectional (*optional*)
--------------------------

(*boolean*) This field marks if transmissions between two devices A and B are considered monodirectional (``false``), i.e., A>B and A<B are two different flows; or bidirectional (``true``), i.e., A>B and A<B belong to the same flow . Example:

.. code-block:: none

   "bidirectional": true

features (*optional*)
---------------------

(see :ref:`features <features>`)

key_features (*optional*)
-------------------------

(*array* of *objects*)

Describes the features used to aggregate the packets.
That is, packets which share these features will be put in the same flow.
In case all packets should be in the same flow, use an empty list (``[]``).

For the features, see :ref:`features <features>`.

flow_aggregations (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *flow_aggregation* can contain several *flow_aggregation-objects*. A *flow_aggregation-object* is defined when analysis in the paper are conducted on aggregation of features or flows, i.e., analysis tools usually describe networks as a whole. A *flow_aggregation-object* is composed of several fields: 

selection (*optional*)
----------------------

Like in :ref:`packet-object.selection <selection>`.

role (*optional*)
-----------------

Like in :ref:`packet-object.role <role>`.

main_goal (*optional*)
----------------------

Like in :ref:`packet-object.main_goal <main_goal>`. 

active_timeout (*optional*)
---------------------------

Like in :ref:`flow-object.active_timeout <active_timeout>`.

bidirectional (*optional*)
--------------------------

Like in :ref:`flow-object.bidirectional <bidirectional>`.

features (*optional*)
---------------------

(see :ref:`features <features>`)

key_features (*optional*)
-------------------------

(*array* of *objects*)

Describes the features used to aggregate the flows.
That is, flows which share these features will be put in the same flow aggregation.
In case all flows should be in the same flow, use an empty list (``[]``).

For the features, see :ref:`features <features>`.


JSON example (preprocessing, complete)
``````````````````````````````````````

.. code-block:: none

  "preprocessing": {
    "performed_feature_selection": true,
    "packet_analysis_oriented": false,
    "flow_analysis_oriented": true,
    "flow_aggregation_analysis_oriented": false,
    "tools": [
        {
            "tool": "tshark",
            "detail": "v2.0.0",
            "availability": "public"
        },
        {
            "tool": "own_perl_scripts",
            "detail": "none",
            "availability": "private"
        }
    ],
    "normalization_type": "range",
    "transformations": ["flow_extraction","log","time_series", "feature_operation", "class_separation"],
    "final_data_format": "numerical_vectors",
    "feature_selections": [
        {
            "name": "max-relevance min-redundancy filter (correlation and MI based)",
            "type": "filter",
            "classifier": "none",
            "role": "main"
        }
    ],
    "flows": [
        {
            "selection": "expert_knowledge",
            "role": "main",
            "main_goal": "traffic_classification",
            "active_timeout": 60,
            "idle_timeout": 60,
            "bidirectional": false,
            "features": [
                {"log": ["octetTotalCount"]},
                {"log": ["packetTotalCount"]},
                "_activeForSeconds",
                {"log": [{"divide": ["octetTotalCount", "_activeForSeconds"]}]},
                {"log": [{"divide": ["packetTotalCount", "_activeForSeconds"]}]},
                "__maximumConsecutiveSeconds",
                "__minimumConsecutiveSeconds",
                {"maximum": ["_interPacketTimeMicroseconds"]},
                {"minimum": ["_interPacketTimeMicroseconds"]},
                "__numberof_activity_intervals",
            ],
            "key_features": [
                "sourceIPv4Address", 
                "destinationIPv4Address",
                "protocolIdentifier"
            ]
        },
        {
            "selection": "feature_selection",
            "role": "main",
            "main_goal": "traffic_classification",
            "active_timeout": 60,
            "idle_timeout": 60,
            "bidirectional": false,
            "features": [
                {"log": ["octetTotalCount"]},
                {"log": [{"divide": ["octetTotalCount", "_activeForSeconds"]}]},
                {"maximum": ["_interPacketTimeMicroseconds"]},
                {"minimum": ["_interPacketTimeMicroseconds"]},
            ],
            "key_features": [
                "sourceIPv4Address", 
                "destinationIPv4Address",
                "protocolIdentifier"
            ]
        }
    ]
  },

Commit message:

Improved feature parser (#5)
* added bidirectional to flow_aggregations

* added help links to schema

* readded recall to schema (was accidentally deleted)

* first attempt at a simpler parser

* introduced down rules

* added logic-down to force going down when using select

* removed count applied to values, doesn't seem to make sense

* implemented budget for down-leveling

* changed value+ to value, value+ (to avoid shortcutting through value+ without consuming down)

* changed entropy to receive values instead of value

* changed schema to be a bit more strict with base-feature naming

* added clarification on when to use packets/flows/flow_aggregations

* added specification of new features names

docs/preprocessing.rst, after:

.. _preprocessing:

Preprocessing
=============

Properties
``````````

performed_feature_selection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It states if a feature selection process is carried out in the paper to select the suitable set of features for the analysis. Example:

.. code-block:: none

     "performed_feature_selection": true

packet_analysis_oriented
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It states if, after the preprocessing phase, the data to analyze is intended to be explored packet by packet (e.g., by methods that perform deep packet inspection). Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"packet_analysis_oriented": false

flow_analysis_oriented
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It states if, after the preprocessing phase, the data to analyze is intended to be explored flow by flow. Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"flow_analysis_oriented": true

flow_aggregation_analysis_oriented
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*boolean*) It states if, after the preprocessing phase, the data to analyze has been aggregated according to either features or flows. Therefore, the final analysis will not explore flows or packets, but usually networks as a whole by studying the aggregated values (e.g., time series showing the use of network resources). Example:

.. code-block:: none

	"flow_aggregation_analysis_oriented": false

.. include:: tools.rst 

normalization_type
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*string*) This field saves information about possible normalization of numerical data. ``"no"`` stands for cases where no normalization is applied but numerical attributes are used. ``"not_applicable"`` is for cases where normalization makes no sense (e.g., all analyzed fields are nominal or categories). Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values):

``"no"``, ``"not_applicable"``, ``"range"``, ``"zscore"``, ``"decimal_scaling"``, ``"quartile"``

.. note::
    do not confuse ``"quartile"`` with ``"quantile"``. ``"quartile"`` normalization uses *Q1* (25th percentile) and *Q3* (75th percentile) for normalization.

Example:

.. code-block:: none

 	"normalization_type": "range"

transformations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *strings*) This field collects all transformations that are performed after the dataset retrieval and previous to the analysis phase (i.e., they are part of the data preparation). Please, consider carefully the following listed operations (values):

``"no"``, ``"sampling"``, ``"filtering"``, ``"log"``, ``"map"``, ``"graph"``, ``"feature_aggregation"``, ``"flow_extraction"``, ``"entropy"``, ``"time_series"``, ``"feature_operation"``, ``"class_separation"``

.. note:: This field is redundant with the features in the packets/flows/flow aggregations. However, this field is mandatory while the feature fields are optionals.

Example:

.. code-block:: none
 
 	"transformations": ["sampling", "flow_extraction", "class_separation"]

final_data_format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*string*) It collects the format of data after the preprocessing and previous to the analysis phase. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values):

* ``"numerical_vectors"``
* ``"nominal_vectors"``
* ``"mixed_vectors"``
* ``"strings"``
* ``"time_series"``

Example:

.. code-block:: none
 
   	"final_data_format": "numerical_vectors"

feature_selections (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *feature_selections* can contain several *feature_selection-objects*. A *feature_selection-object* is composed of several fields: 

name
----

(*string*) The name that identifies the feature selection technique. Example:

.. code-block:: none
   
   "name": "forward_selection"

type (*optional*)
-----------------

(*string*) It identifies the type of feature selection method. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values): 

* ``"wrapper"``
* ``"filter"``
* ``"hybrid"``
* ``"nest"``
  when it embeds or operates in a higher level than other nested methods. 
* ``"feature_reduction"``
  when it refers to methods that change the space and transform the initial set of features into a new set of features with less dimensions (e.g., PCA, LDA). 

Example:

.. code-block:: none
      
      "type": "wrapper"

classifier (*optional*)
-----------------------

(*string*) It identifies the wrapped classifier that is used to evaluate the subset performance. If *classifier* is not applicable (e.g., for filters), write ``"none"``. Example:

.. code-block:: none
   
     "classifier": "naive_bayes"

role (*optional*)
-----------------

(*string*) This field is meaningful when diverse feature selection methods are compared. Default values are: ``"main"``, when the method led to the best solutions; and ``"competitor"`` for other cases. If only one feature selection method is used, it is always ``"main"``. Example:

.. code-block:: none
   
    "role": "main"

packets (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *packets* can contain several *packet-objects*. A *packet-object* is defined when analysis in the paper are conducted on packets, i.e., analysis tools check packets independently or/and packet contents. Use this if you have a feature-vector for each packet. A *packet-object* is composed of several fields: 

selection (*optional*)
----------------------

(*string*) It identifies how the features extracted to analyze packets were selected. Please, consider carefully the following default labels (values):

.. _selection:

* ``"in_dataset"``
  if the analyzed feature set is exactly the same feature set of the dataset before preprocessing.
* ``"feature_selection"``
  if a feature selection process was conducted and led to the current feature subset. 
* ``"study_based"``
  if the selected features are taken from a previous study referred in the paper.
* ``"tool_based"``
  if the selected features are obtained from an extraction or preprocessing tool.
* ``"expert_knowledge"``
  if the selection of features is endorsed by reasoning and proper explanations in the paper.

Example:

.. code-block:: none

     "selection": "in_dataset"
   
.. _role:

role (*optional*)
-----------------

(*string*) This field is meaningful when diverse preprocessing methods are compared.

Default values are:

* ``"main"``
  when the method led to the best solutions.
* ``"validation"``
  for the specific case of *packets*, when packet inspection is used as baseline or ground truth for validating flow-based analysis.
* ``"competitor"``
  otherwise.

Example:

.. code-block:: none
  
        "role": "validation"

.. _main_goal:

main_goal (*optional*)
----------------------

(*string*) This field saves the main goal of preparing the data according to this packet-based format. Please, consider the following possible labels (values):

* ``"anomaly_detection"``
* ``"application_classification"``
* ``"attack_classification"``
* ``"botnet_detection"``
* ``"classification_for_qos"``
* ``"classification_of_encrypted_traffic"``
* ``"ddos_detection"``
* ``"dos_detection"``
* ``"http_intrusion_detection"``
* ``"network_properties_monitoring"``
* ``"p2p_botnet_detection"``
* ``"p2p_traffic_classification"``
* ``"probe_detection"``
* ``"remote_to_local_detection"``
* ``"specific_malware_detection"``
* ``"traffic_classification"``
* ``"traffic_rate_prediction"``
* ``"traffic_visualization"``
* ``"user_to_root_detection"``

Example:

.. code-block:: none
  
           "main_goal": "traffic_classification"

.. _features:

features (*optional*)
---------------------

(*array* of *objects*)

Describes the features used in the paper. See :doc:`features` for complete information.


flows (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *flows* can contain several *flow-objects*. A *flow-object* is defined when analysis in the paper are conducted on flows, i.e., analysis tools check the behaviour of connection and connection attempts. Use this if you have a feature-vector for each flow. A *flow-object* is composed of several fields: 

selection (*optional*)
----------------------
   Like in :ref:`packet-object.selection <selection>`.

role (*optional*)
-----------------
   Like in :ref:`packet-object.role <role>`.

main_goal (*optional*)
----------------------
   Like in :ref:`packet-object.main_goal <main_goal>`. 

.. _active_timeout:

active_timeout (*optional*)
---------------------------

(*numerical*, in seconds) This field defines the maximum duration of a flow. Example:
   
.. code-block:: none

  "active_timeout": 60

idle_timeout (*optional*)
-------------------------

(*numerical*, in seconds) This field defines the time in which, if no activity has been detected, the flow is considered as finished. Example:

.. code-block:: none

   "idle_timeout": 5

.. _bidirectional:

bidirectional (*optional*)
--------------------------

(*boolean*) This field marks if transmissions between two devices A and B are considered monodirectional (``false``), i.e., A>B and A<B are two different flows; or bidirectional (``true``), i.e., A>B and A<B belong to the same flow . Example:

.. code-block:: none

   "bidirectional": true

features (*optional*)
---------------------

(see :ref:`features <features>`)

key_features (*optional*)
-------------------------

(*array* of *objects*)

Describes the features used to aggregate the packets.
That is, packets which share these features will be put in the same flow.
In case all packets should be in the same flow, use an empty list (``[]``).

For the features, see :ref:`features <features>`.

flow_aggregations (*optional*)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(*array* of *objects*) *flow_aggregation* can contain several *flow_aggregation-objects*. A *flow_aggregation-object* is defined when analysis in the paper are conducted on aggregation of features or flows, i.e., analysis tools usually describe networks as a whole. Use this if you have a feature-vector for each set of flows. A *flow_aggregation-object* is composed of several fields: 

selection (*optional*)
----------------------

Like in :ref:`packet-object.selection <selection>`.

role (*optional*)
-----------------

Like in :ref:`packet-object.role <role>`.

main_goal (*optional*)
----------------------

Like in :ref:`packet-object.main_goal <main_goal>`. 

active_timeout (*optional*)
---------------------------

Like in :ref:`flow-object.active_timeout <active_timeout>`.

bidirectional (*optional*)
--------------------------

Like in :ref:`flow-object.bidirectional <bidirectional>`.

features (*optional*)
---------------------

(see :ref:`features <features>`)

key_features (*optional*)
-------------------------

(*array* of *objects*)

Describes the features used to aggregate the flows.
That is, flows which share these features will be put in the same flow aggregation.
In case all flows should be in the same flow, use an empty list (``[]``).

For the features, see :ref:`features <features>`.


JSON example (preprocessing, complete)
``````````````````````````````````````

.. code-block:: none

  "preprocessing": {
    "performed_feature_selection": true,
    "packet_analysis_oriented": false,
    "flow_analysis_oriented": true,
    "flow_aggregation_analysis_oriented": false,
    "tools": [
        {
            "tool": "tshark",
            "detail": "v2.0.0",
            "availability": "public"
        },
        {
            "tool": "own_perl_scripts",
            "detail": "none",
            "availability": "private"
        }
    ],
    "normalization_type": "range",
    "transformations": ["flow_extraction","log","time_series", "feature_operation", "class_separation"],
    "final_data_format": "numerical_vectors",
    "feature_selections": [
        {
            "name": "max-relevance min-redundancy filter (correlation and MI based)",
            "type": "filter",
            "classifier": "none",
            "role": "main"
        }
    ],
    "flows": [
        {
            "selection": "expert_knowledge",
            "role": "main",
            "main_goal": "traffic_classification",
            "active_timeout": 60,
            "idle_timeout": 60,
            "bidirectional": false,
            "features": [
                {"log": ["octetTotalCount"]},
                {"log": ["packetTotalCount"]},
                "_activeForSeconds",
                {"log": [{"divide": ["octetTotalCount", "_activeForSeconds"]}]},
                {"log": [{"divide": ["packetTotalCount", "_activeForSeconds"]}]},
                "__maximumConsecutiveSeconds",
                "__minimumConsecutiveSeconds",
                {"maximum": ["_interPacketTimeMicroseconds"]},
                {"minimum": ["_interPacketTimeMicroseconds"]},
                "__numberof_activity_intervals",
            ],
            "key_features": [
                "sourceIPv4Address", 
                "destinationIPv4Address",
                "protocolIdentifier"
            ]
        },
        {
            "selection": "feature_selection",
            "role": "main",
            "main_goal": "traffic_classification",
            "active_timeout": 60,
            "idle_timeout": 60,
            "bidirectional": false,
            "features": [
                {"log": ["octetTotalCount"]},
                {"log": [{"divide": ["octetTotalCount", "_activeForSeconds"]}]},
                {"maximum": ["_interPacketTimeMicroseconds"]},
                {"minimum": ["_interPacketTimeMicroseconds"]},
            ],
            "key_features": [
                "sourceIPv4Address", 
                "destinationIPv4Address",
                "protocolIdentifier"
            ]
        }
    ]
  },
